Story Recapped here. Today I'm going to explain
a horror and sci-fi film called "28 Weeks Later."
Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take care.
In a countryside cottage, husband and wife, Don
and Alice Harris, hide with other survivors. Alice
still worries about their children, who, just
before the outbreak, went on a school trip abroad.
The couple dines with fellow survivors: Sally,
Jacob, Karen, and Geoff. Karen saves a plate
for her boyfriend, Sam, who left the group five
days ago. Jacob argues that Sam is either dead or
doesn't care for them anymore. They're interrupted
by a banging on the door. Hearing a little boy
calling for help, Alice insists on letting him.
While the others are looking after the
boy, Karen peeks outside the house,
still hopeful that her boyfriend will return. An
infected appears and grabs her arm, biting her.
Jacob pulls her away, but Karen tackles him.
Don hits her head with a crowbar to free Jacob.
The others run away while Don fights the
infected. More infected people break the windows,
getting into the cottage. Alice and
the boy run upstairs for safety. Geoff,
Sally, and Jacob escape to the barn, with Geoff
holding the door to allow the others to escape.
Don kills an infected but loses his
crowbar. He rushes upstairs to find Alice.
Back at the barn, the door breaks,
allowing the infected to overpower Geoff.
Sally freezes in grief for her husband. Jacob
tries to pull her up to the barn's second floor,
but the infected grabs her. Unable to
save her, Jacob shuts the trapdoor.
Don finds Alice in the bedroom, but
she refuses to leave without the boy.
She finally sees the boy hiding
in the closet and runs to him.
An infected man breaks down the door, coming
between Alice and Don. Alice screams for help,
but the frightened Don shuts the bathroom
door, leaving his wife to fend for herself.
Don climbs out of the window and runs
away. Alice sees him from the window.
But Don continues to run, watching
Alice get overpowered by the infected.
Don sprints to the river with
a horde closing in on him.
He reaches the dock where Jacob is preparing
the boat. Don gets in the boat, but Jacob falls
in the water. Don tries to pull him up, but
the infected pull him down. Not long after,
Jacob comes back up again, now infected.
Don kicks him off the boat and escapes.
His face is full of grief and fear, looking
back to the window where he last saw his wife.
Twenty-eight weeks after the rage virus
hit, an American-led NATO force assists
Britain's repatriation after all
the infected died from starvation.
A sniper from the US Military, Sergeant Doyle,
keeps watch of the area while joking around
with his friend, a helicopter pilot named Flynn.
A plane arrives at the airport, bringing home
Britons who escaped the outbreak. Major Scarlet
Levy, a medical officer, watches the new arrivals
and is upset to see children amongst them.
Among the new arrivals are Tammy and Andy.
Scarlet performs Andy's medical evaluation,
noting his heterochromatic eyes,
which he inherited from his mother.
Andy and Tammy are taken to District One, the
first secured quarantine area after the outbreak.
Arriving there, Tammy and Andy happily
reunite with their father, Don.
Meanwhile, Scarlet insists to her superiors
that they are not prepared to admit minors.
General Stone assures her that the virus will not
come back, and if it does, they can control it.
Back in District One, Don gives his children a
tour. He's a caretaker of the district, providing
him a comfortable penthouse for his family. But
they will be moved to a new house in a couple
of months. Don explains that they can't return to
their old home, given the lack of security in the
area. This prompts Andy to ask about their mother.
Don hesitantly lies about seeing Alice in a
critical state, that he was too late to save her.
Tammy tells him that they're happy he survived.
That evening, Doyle sets up his sniper rifle
to watch over the residents of District One.
Using his scope, he spies on the building's
residents. When he sees the Harris family, he is
glad that their operations help families reunite.
Then, he sees a worried Scarlet in her room.
Later that evening, Andy has a nightmare, seeing
his infected mother. Andy tells Tammy that he's
worried that he'll forget his mother's
face. Tammy assures him that he wouldn't.
On the next day, Tammy and Andy sneak out of the
safe zone. Doyle spots them and
reports the kids to be retrieved.
Tammy and Andy run in the streets,
finally getting a taste of freedom.
They stop at a pizza restaurant, seeing
a motorbike. Thinking that they can use
it to make their trip faster, Tammy goes
in and takes the key from a lifeless body.
Tammy drives the motorbike until
they finally reach their old home.
They pick up the spare key hidden just as Don
realizes they're missing back in District One.
The siblings enter their home and
quickly retrieve Alice's photo.
Then, Tammy and Andy collect personal
items and clothes from their bedrooms.
After a while, Andy calls out
for Tammy, but she doesn't
answer. He hears the door creak in the
attic, and he goes in to investigate.
Inside the attic, he sees bowls of rotting food
and drawings on the wall. A movement catches his
eye. He gets a closer look
at the figure in the dark.
It's Alice. Happy to see his mother, Andy hugs
her. But Alice starts hugging him too tightly.
Soldiers arrive in front of the house. Andy
frees himself and runs out of the house with
Tammy following him. The soldiers corner
the children and investigate the house.
In District One, Alice is given a decontamination
bath. She's later strapped to a bed,
surrounded by soldiers. Scarlet asks how she
survived for so long, but she's unresponsive.
Scarlet rolls her sleeve to take a blood
sample but sees a bite mark on Alice's arm.
Alice insists on seeing her children.
Don is surprised to hear that both
his children and his wife were found.
In the detention room, Don asks his kids why
they left, but Tammy demands the truth about
Alice. Don lies that he's also confused but tells
them they should be happy that Alice is alive.
Scarlet confirms that Alice is infected
through her blood test but shows no symptoms.
She tells General Stone that Alice may
have a natural immunity to the virus. But
she's still a carrier and can infect others.
General Stone decides to have Alice executed,
despite Scarlet's insistence that
studying her may lead to a cure.
During this, Don enters the isolation room
and tearfully apologizes to Alice for leaving
her in the cottage. Alice assures him that she
still loves him. Overjoyed with their emotions,
Don leans in and kisses her.
With the kiss, Don gets infected. Alice watches
as the crazed Don struggles and vomits blood.
Alice frantically wiggles out of
her constraints. But she's trapped.
The infected Don brutally kills her.
Now infected, Don starts infecting the soldiers
in his way. General Stone sees the tragedy.
He announces Code Red to contain the outbreak.
The soldiers lock down District One. In the
detention room, the soldier watching Tammy and
Andy assures them that everything is fine, then
leaves to check things out. But when he returns,
he's infected and enraged. Scarlet shoots
the soldier and takes the siblings away.
The District One residents are being
transferred to a secure location.
Scarlet tries to get top-priority security
for Tammy and Andy, but the soldiers refuse.
In the confusion, Andy gets pushed by the
crowd, losing sight of Tammy and Scarlet.
The residents are taken to the garage for
their safety. They panic when the soldiers
lock the doors. Andy finds a quiet
corner to rest. The power shuts down,
plunging the frightened residents into darkness.
The fire exit door starts shaking, catching Andy's
and another man's attention. Andy goes closer with
the other man shining his flashlight on it. The
infected Don bangs on the door. Andy is shocked
to see his father in his monstrous state. Don goes
for the other man with the flashlight, vomiting
blood on his face. Don jumps to another person
just as the man with the flashlight rampages.
The crowd panics as more get infected.
Andy climbs on top of people and cars,
then climbs over the vent. He covers
his ears to block out the screams.
A group of people forces the locked doors open,
allowing them to spill out of the building.
The soldiers shoot the infected, but
the confusion makes it difficult.
Scarlet and Tammy exit the building.
Watching the situation get worse, General
Stone announces to shoot all targets,
both infected or uninfected. Scarlet finds a radio
and tells the military to find and evacuate Andy.
Outside, Andy finally makes his way
out of the vents. Doyle receives the
order to shoot everyone on the ground and
questions if he could kill innocent people.
The snipers shoot everyone, causing more
panic. Andy hears someone calling to him.
He spots a man, Sam, beckoning
him to get into a warehouse.
An infected man runs to Andy. But Doyle
saves Andy, allowing him to escape.
One of the snipers gets cornered by the
infected. Doyle shoots his comrade in the
head to spare him from the infection. Doyle
can't bear killing the innocent anymore.
Inside the warehouse, Andy wanders around and
finds Scarlet and Tammy. Tammy hugs her brother,
relieved that he's safe. Andy tells Tammy that
their father is infected. This breaks her heart.
Sam wonders why the military
is targeting everyone.
Scarlet explains that the army must exterminate
everyone if they can't contain the outbreak.
They discuss how to escape both the infected
and the military. Doyle walks in, telling them
that they can evade the infected during the
night, but not the snipers. Scarlet asks why
he left his post; Doyle explains that he wants to
escape the chaos, offering to help the survivors.
Doyle leads Scarlet, Tammy, Andy,
and a few others out of the building.
Doyle gets a hold of Flynn, who informs
him that the Air Cavalry is ordered to
bomb District One to contain the outbreak.
He tells Doyle to meet him at Regent Park.
The groups run in the streets when a
sniper starts firing at the survivors.
The rest hide in an alley.
Scarlet gets hit in the leg,
but she quickly bandages it up. Doyle notices
that the sniper is panicked, making his shots
less accurate. He asks Sam to help him make
the sniper reveal his position. But Sam is
scared and refuses. Hearing this, Andy rushes
across the street, using himself as bait for the
sniper. Doyle hurriedly fires at the sniper.
The rest go to Andy, seeing that he's okay.
The survivors climb over the perimeter
walls, watching the cavalry fly overhead.
They head into a tunnel for safety.
In his helicopter, Flynn watches as District
One is bombed, with both the infected and
non-infected burned alive. Soldiers in
the control room watch the devastation.
A placid Don evades the fire behind a wall while
watching the photo of his wife
and son burn in front of him.
Doyle sees the flames reaching the tunnel.
They rush out of the tunnel before it explodes.
Stone listens to reports of the firebombs.
A camera feed shows a few infected people
survived the firebombs and are
tearing down the barricades.
Morning comes, and the survivors rest in Regent
Park. Andy wonders if their mom is still alive,
but Tammy doesn't think so.
Doyle admits to Scarlet that he had Andy as
a target, but he couldn't shoot the boy so
he left his post. Scarlet informs him that Andy
and Tammy's mother was immune to the rage virus,
and she believes that the two siblings
may carry the same immune gene.
She stresses that the kids' lives
are more important than theirs.
Flynn radios in, informing Doyle that the infected
are nearby. Doyle tries to escape with the rest,
but they're too late. The infected are close.
Doyle orders them to hide in the grass.
The helicopter arrives, Doyle insists
on evacuating the kids over the channel,
but Flynn refuses to take them.
Seeing the infected getting near, Sam panics
and grabs hold of the helicopter's skid,
begging Flynn to take him away. Flynn flies the
aircraft closer to the infected out of confusion.
He aims the rotor blades
down, slicing the infected.
The others run away as the infected reach
them. With infected blood on his face,
Sam falls from the helicopter. Flynn flies
the helicopter away, telling Doyle over the
radio to head to the stadium but insists
on leaving the rest of the survivors.
The group reaches the park's exit, but Andy trips.
Doyle turns and shoots the infected to save him.
Doyle tries to contact Flynn again, arguing for
him to ignore the Code Red and save the rest.
More infected people chase after them. The
group runs but is stopped when nerve gas is
pumped at the end of the road. They get in a
van and close the vents, covering their faces.
The infected bang on the windows
until the gas finally kills them.
Scarlet tries to start the car, but it won't.
Doyle sees soldiers using
flamethrowers to burn the infected.
He tells Scarlet to get the kids to the stadium
on her own before getting out of the car.
Doyle rushes to the back of the car and
pushes it. When the soldiers get near,
he orders Scarlet to start
the car, and it finally does.
The trio watch in tears as Doyle is
set ablaze by his fellow soldiers.
Scarlet drives the kids to the stadium, avoiding
roads where the nerve gas rolls in. An Apache
gunship starts firing at them. Scarlet drives
the car into an underground transit to avoid it.
Leaving the car, Scarlet grabs Doyle's sniper
rifle and leads the kids. Upon reaching a
dark area, Scarlet watches through the rifle's
night vision to direct the siblings where to go.
Tammy and Andy blindly climb
down a set of escalators.
But the two slip down, out of Scarlet's sight.
Following her voice, Scarlet
finds Tammy. Don appears,
ambushing Scarlet. He takes the
rifle and slams it on Scarlet's head.
When things go quiet again, Tammy finds
the rifle and looks through the scope,
seeing Scarlet's lifeless body.
At the platform, Andy looks for the
others, but Don walks in instead.
Andy is frozen as Don tackles him to
the floor, biting him on the neck.
Tammy finds them, and Don runs to her. Tammy,
no longer seeing her father in him, shoots Don.
Tears in her eyes, Tammy walks to her
brother. Believing that he will turn,
Andy runs away from her. He collapses on the
railway, allowing Tammy to reach him. She
helps him up and checks his left eye, which turns
bloodshot like Alice's was. Andy is also immune.
The two reach the stadium, where Flynn waits.
Flynn aims a gun at them and asks where Doyle is.
Tammy shields her brother out of his sight. She
tells him that it's just the two of them now.
Flynn finally agrees to help out the siblings,
flying them across The English Channel.
Tammy and Andy watch the devastation
that the outbreak caused.
Twenty-eight days later, Flynn's
helicopter is abandoned. A group
of the infected run up a tunnel and
out into the city of Paris, France.